What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

     Git creates the .git hidden folder to store committed files. 
     It also inicates to git that is a repository.
     You need to intialize the repository so that you can use git against the files
     within it. 

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
     Files in the working directory may or may not be be tracked. All files within
     the staging area tracked, but not committed. Files in the repository are files
     from the staging area that have been committed. 
What value do you think it offers?
     It allows tracking of only the relevant files from the working directory. 
     Image files and other non-changing files do not need to be staged .

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?
     You can use git diff --staged to verify all of the differences between 
     what is currently in stage and the last commit. In this way, you can confirm 
     that all of the changes are related to one logical change. 

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

     When you want to make an alternate version of your code. For example an Oracle
     versus Sql Server version. You can keep the main sections of code the same
     but change only the aspects that reflect the different providers or 
     syntax between Oracle and Sql Server.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

     You can tell what commits are included in each branch, as well as, 
     where each branch originates from. It is easier to track how changes
     can affect the other branches 

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

     It is a collection of non-conflicting changes to the source files of 2 branches.
     To illustrate that all of the commits from both branches are now part of the merged
     branch. 

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?
     PRO is that it will merge all updates to the code for you and alert when there is a conflict
     PRO is that it will point out the area where the conflict comes from 
     CON is that it is not complex enough to resolve the merge conflicts for you